Format Data for NCEI:

Things to do before you start:
-You will want to have all the presence tables for a specific detector in one folder. 

For example: 
If you are wanting to process dolphin and vessel presence tables you would take all 
of your presence tables for dolphins and put them in one folder with no subfolders 
(the app can sort between different sanctuaries and sites/deployments).
All of the files for vessels will need to be in a separate folder from dolphins since
they came from a different detector. 
**For baleen whales, LFDCS, it is fine to have all species in one folder since they are from the same detector.  

1. Launch Marina app
2. In the menu bar go to "PA Group Docks" > "SanctSound" > "Boats" > "Format Data for NCEI"
3. The Format Data for NCEI app will launch, select the detector type on the left side for the files you will want to 
   process first. You will have to go through one type of detector at a time. 
4. Click "Browse..." and select the presence tables which you will want to format for NCEI that correspond the detector type you selected
   This is where having the singular folder with all your presence tabels will be helpful. It is not possible to select files in separate folders
5. After you click "Open", You will see the files you have selected in the app window.
6. Click "Run" and you will be prompted to select a save location. 
**In the save location selected, the app will create a hierarchy of folders. The first will have the Sanctuary initals of the files
  that you are processing (i.e. SB, FK, & GR *these are all EC sanctuaries but it works with WC too). 
  Inside each sanctuary folder there will be another folder with a site and deployment name 
  (i.e. SB01_03 in SB, FK03_03 in FK, & GR01_03 in GR). Inside those folders will be your actual .csv file of the formatted data. 
  The app will check if the folders already exsist before it creates them so that there are not duplicates made. This way, 
  if there is already a space where you have NCEI fomratted data stored, you will be able to add to it with no problems. 
7. Select the save location and wait for the app to process your files and for the status lamp to return to green. 
8. Repeat this same process for each detector type you will be formatting files for. Make sure you select the same save location 
   every time. 